This is Jocco podcast number nine with echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Perhaps I stabbed our Savior in his sacred helpless side, yet have called his name and
blessing when and after times I died.
Through the chival of the ages, midst of pomp and toil of war, have I fought and strove
and perished countless times upon this star.
I have sinned and I have suffered, played the hero and the nave, fought for belly, shame,
or country, and for each have found a grave.
So as through a glass and darkly, the age long strife I see, where I fought in many
guys' many names, but always me.
So forever in the future, shall I battle as of your dying to be born a fighter, but to die
again once more?
And that is a poem by General George S. Patton.
And I've been thinking about the podcast and about the direction and about the things
and about what we talk about and what I talk about.
And I was actually looking for a for a non-military book for a book that talks about
the same kind of things that I think about, but it's not about war, because there's a very
small population that are engaged in war and real war.
So I've been looking for a book and I've got a bunch of books that I enjoy and books that
I like and I've been looking for a good book that is not a war book.
And I had some close ones and maybe they'll make the cut, but we're not there yet.
Because quite simply war is at another level.
That's not better and it's not a good thing.
And I don't worship war, but it is.
In fact, the ultimate human struggle.
It has Judge Holden in the book Blood Meridian puts it.
This is the nature of war, whose stake is at once the game and the authority and the justification.
Seen so war is the trueest form of divination.
It is the testing of one's will and the will of another within that larger will which
because it binds them is therefore forced to select.
War is the ultimate game because war is at last a forcing of the unity of existence.
War is God.
Now I'm going to tell you, I'm not going to go into Blood Meridian tonight.
Blood Meridian, I've talked about it on a couple of occasions and one day we will.
And it's probably going to take multiple shows and it's going to take research, but that
is a heavy, heavy book that is thick with content and meaning and words that are powerful.
And that's a tiny slice of blood Meridian.
And we will get to it at some point and I actually get people who is like, hey, do
Blood Meridian do Blood Meridian because there are a lot of people that take a lot of information
a lot of meaning from that book.
But I'm not ready yet.
I'm not.
That's going to take and it's the same thing with Shakespeare people like, hey, when you're
going to do the barred and it's the same thing.
I want to be fully prepared and I'm either going to do it.
Maybe I won't be fully prepared to do the whole thing, but maybe we'll take chunks of
Blood Meridian, of course, chunks of Shakespeare and start to try and digest them because
there's a big meal.
Now, that's why, you know, that's why we're not talking about a business book tonight.
That's why we're not talking about a business leader.
That's why we're not talking about a sports leader.
That's when I, we're not talking about a public figure that had to struggle through whatever
to get to the top of the mountain that they were climbing or a mountain climber.
We're not talking about that.
We're talking about a war.
And like I said, war does not God like Judge Holden describes it in Blood Meridian, but
it certainly is a powerful force and it certainly is the ultimate struggle.
The ultimate struggle from life against other humans that want to end your life and that's
it, which brings us to Patton.
And that poem, you know, obviously in Patton's mind, he was a warrior before, over and over
again.
Yeah, he thought he was reincarnated.
Sorry, he's reincarnated.
Like, he's a soldier for Caesar.
So old, you know, for hundreds and thousands of years.
Yeah.
And before I do jump in a paton, I do detankers, detankers of the world, the US military.
We worked with one one AD, the first brigade, first armored division in Ramadiya,
Iraq in 2006, the ready first and the text, the 68 ton Abrams main battle tank with a giant
turbine engine grinding the street apart, as they come to support and rescue and save
the seals, which they did over and over again.
And there was no better sound in the world than those tanks firing up their engines and
putting main gun rounds into buildings to kill bad guys and protect American troops.
And we heard a lot about Patton while we were working with the one one AD because the
guy is the kind of the foremost tanker.
And even me, I grew up with Patton because the George C Scott movie was released when
I was a kid.
And to this day, I remember watching that for the first time and being, you know, aw,
struck my paton.
And when you stick your hand into a bunch of goo that a moment ago was your best
friend's face, then you'll know what to do.
That's all.
And so that was just a, that's how I grew up.
I mean, I grew up.
I don't watch that movie so many times.
I can't even remember.
Do you still watch it?
We watched it in Ramadi.
What?
Just to get fired up.
And it is a great movie.
Let's talk about the real Patton who actually in many ways was more colorful and more
charismatic and really larger in life and real life than George C Scott and the movie could
make him out to be.
I read that he would when he'd talk and stuff he'd swear a lot.
He used a lot of profanity, but he did that on purpose.
He did it like to send a message or to get his guy fired up, but in regular conversation,
he didn't really swear.
He's a mysterious guy with a lot of different facets to him.
So I'm going to kick this off.
So we're going to the book, George S. Patton.
War as I knew it.
And interestingly, this book was given to me by life, life babin who wrote extreme ownership
with me and who served with me in Ramadi.
And as I want to my brothers.
So General Order number 18.
This is from Patton to his troops.
Soldiers of the seventh army.
Born at sea, baptized in blood and crowned with victory.
In the course of 38 days of incestant battle and unceasing labor, you have added a glorious
chapter to the history of war.
After it against the best Germans and Italians could offer, you have been unfailingly
successful.
The rapidity of your dash, which culminated in the capture of Palermo, was equaled by the
dog and tenacity with which you stormed Chenea and captured Messina.
Every man in the army deserves equal credit.
The enduring valor of the infantry and the impetus forosity of the tanks were matched
by the tyros clamor of our destroying guns.
The engineers prefering prodigies in the construction and maintenance of impossible roads over
impossible country.
The services of maintenance to supply performed a miracle.
The signal correlate over 10,000 miles of wire and the medical department evacuated
and cared for our second wounded.
On all occasions, the Navy has given generous and gallant support.
Throughout the operation, our air has kept the sky clear and tirelessly supported the
operation of the ground troops.
As a result of this combined effort, you have killed or captured 113,350 enemy troops.
You've destroyed 265 of his tanks, 2324 vehicles and 1162 large guns and in addition,
you have collected a mass of military booty running to the hundreds of tons.
But your victory has a significance be above and beyond its physical aspect.
You have destroyed the prestige of the enemy.
The president of the United States, the Secretary of War, the Chief of Staff, General
Eisenhower, General Alexander, General Montgomery have all congratulated you.
Your fame shall never die.
GS Patton, Jr., who attended General U.S. Army, commanding.
So you were talking about getting fired up and what do you do to get fired up?
Mm-hmm.
There you have it.
Yeah.
Obviously a very skilled writer with great command of the language.
Can you even imagine what you'd feel like hearing that address to you and your people
and your troops, your brothers?
A little bit about Patton.
Few military figures in history have laid siege to the public imagination more relentlessly
than George S. Patton, Jr.
Half a century after his exploits in North Africa on Sicily and across occupied Europe,
his name still evokes the dash and brue of a cavalry charge.
He is widely considered the best field commander in the American Army of World War II and
he is certainly one of the most feared by the Germans who paid him the compliment before
normity of massing defenses against a non-existent Army Patton group.
By V.E. Day, in 1945, he commanded 18 divisions and 540,000 soldiers, a force comparable to
the size of the American military at its peak in Vietnam.
The New York Times declared in his obituary history has reached out and embraced General
George Patton.
His place is secure.
He was not a man of peace.
A man of peace, he was not, but his legacy clearly transcends his military conquest.
He was complex and contradictory, larger than life, and yet all to human.
It is the Patton paradox that trans fixes.
This is something that we've talked about before I'm as podcast and something that I talk
about all the time.
And that is, people's strengths can be their weaknesses.
And you get a guy like Patton who is hyper- regressive.
And that actually ends up being a negative in some cases, even though it's extremely positive
in others.
Back to the book, a warlord fighting in the name of democracy.
He was also an unrepent aristocratic snob.
So this is a guy that, and they talk about this some more, but a guy that was like proud
of soldiers.
Almost to a fault, he revered soldiers, and yet he's an aristocrat.
His devotion to common soldiers bordered on reverence, yet his slapping of two enlisted men
nearly caused him to sit out the war and disgrace.
And we'll get into that a little bit more.
He exuded confidence and relentlessly servitude.
In truth, he was insecure and often confused.
He was well-read, fluent in French, and as a wealthy child of privilege and the husband
of an eras, at home in societies most fashionable salons.
He could also be crude, rude, and plain foolish.
His humility seemed heartfelt, yet he acknowledged and overdeveloped personal ambition.
And once confessed, I don't like the dirt at all except as a means to fame.
So I said this guy is a complex guy.
This isn't a salt of the earth.
David Hackworth guy that you never got that from him.
You never got that guy like Hackworth that he had any sort of quest for glory.
He just complete opposite.
And that's why patent for me is not a pure figure.
You know, not that I would really say that I can think of any pure figures, but he's
definitely a very faulted leader and which makes it good to learn from.
And he had some of them, man.
I mean, obviously, here I am, a complete idiot loser sitting here calling, you know, General
George Jass Pat, George Jass Pat and say he's faulted leader.
So don't get me wrong here.
The guy was unbelievably powerful leader and incredible leader and incredible tactician
and strategist.
But it is very clear that he had some of those dichotomies that went a little bit too
far and one way or the other.
As a warrior back to the book, as a warrior, his fundamental prescription for waging war
involved the violent attacks everywhere with everything.
Yet he considered the carpet bombing of German cities to be barbaric, useless, and
statistic.
So that's a contradiction.
Don't hear very much about him.
And here's how you've seen by the higher ups a little bit.
Eisenhower, who once referred to Paton as this mentally unbalanced officer, also told
George Marshall, Paton is a problem child, but he is great.
He is a great fighting leader in pursuit and exploitation.
A division commander described the general as invaluable and war, but a disturbing element
in times of peace.
And to that, Paton was flattered.
But perhaps the epitaph you would treasure most came from one of his soldiers before the Allied
invasion of France.
Here is a man for whom you would go to Hellenbach.
So clearly to his troops, they held him in very high regard.
Quote from Paton, may God have mercy on my enemies.
They will need it.
That's the kind of thing that when he says people, you know, the front line to you,
which I'm going to hear that and say, yes, we are ready to roll.
He also said leadership is a thing that wins battles.
I have it, but I'll be damned if I can define it.
In Paton's career, we see certain trademarks are relentless aggression and faith in the
offensive and uncanny instinct for enemy intentions and disposition.
Common theme that we talk about all the time, being on offense, being aggressive and
patent was an absolute, probably, I think he is probably the most aggressive of the people
that we've talked about.
And of pretty much, I think of anyone I've ever heard of.
And it goes a little bit negative.
And we see to the creeping arrogance, the hubris, which would cost the American army so
dearly in Vietnam, summing up the achievements of his troops and crushing the German counter
attack of December 1944, patent with parnerable pride, claims to have moved farther and faster
and engaged more divisions in less time than any other army in the history of the United
States, possibly in the history of the world, no country can stand against such an army.
This smug pride, the disease of victory, and I love that.
That's a little something we should all remember.
The disease of victory, victory, supposed to be all positive, but guess what?
There's something called the disease of victory.
Back to the book, this disease of victory would rot the army from within, leading future
commanders to underestimate their enemies and to overestimate their own battlefield
prowess.
Tragically, the only antidote to this disease of victory would be the humiliation of defeat.
We see that sometimes in sports, it all happens.
We see in sports, we see it in business.
Sometimes people need to get humbled.
And when they get humbled, they get arrogant from the victories and then they get humbled
and they get back in the game and they realize what they have to do to win.
Back to the book, his passion for military life ran so deep that he considered it as natural
for me to be a soldier as to breathe.
War he claimed is the only place where a man really lives.
He earned a keen interest in technological developments of armored vehicles and airplanes.
He retained a near-finanical belief in the importance of being mentally and physically ready
to fight.
Even in war where he 1920s, he had managed junior officers.
You must school yourself to savagery.
And speaking of savagery.
This is the slaps when he slapped these young enlisted troopers.
The infamous slaps her round the world.
Patent's memoir gives the episode short-shrift.
But it nearly wrecked his life.
In early August, while visiting wounded troops on Sicily, the commander cuffed a soldier
who had been diagnosed as suffering from battle fatigue.
Patent called cowardice.
Further examination revealed the man had malaria and dysentery.
A week later, Patent repeated his behavior with another soldier.
And this time made motions to draw his pistol as if to shoot the wretch.
Patent publicly apologized, but remained privately unrepidant.
And other officers had the courage to do likewise.
He wrote, the shameful use of battle fatigue is an excuse for cowardice.
Would have been infinitely reduced.
So that was a significant incident.
At he, you know, he publicly apologized, but he obviously didn't really mean that.
He felt he had done the right thing.
But still there was much glory to be one.
Patent's exploiting the battle of the bulge abruptly whaling his army around and driving
100 miles through the icy ardenes to hit the Germans in the flank with 17 divisions
remains among the most storied campaigns in modern warfare.
And then after the war, as Europe was now almost an occupied state in many places.
And as people talked about patent being good for war, but not being good for peace and
that turned out to be pretty accurate.
No longer able to adapt.
He indeed became boyous.
And was arrogant, defiant, and erratic as the summer of 1945 passed.
And that's kind of the intro and patent.
Now going back now to the beginning of the war.
And his first, one of his early journal entries, he says, have been giving everyone a simplified
directive of war.
Use steam roller strategy.
That is, make up your mind on course and direction of action and stick to it.
But in tactics, do not steam roller, attack weakness, hold them by the nose and kick them
in the pants.
This is something that we talk about all the time.
It's flanking people.
It's not going into their strengths and keep attacking their strengths.
No, you attack their strengths to keep them occupied.
But then you come around to the flank.
It's in Gigiitsu, you attack the arm and you get the neck or you attack the neck and you
get the arm.
In combat, it's flanking.
That's what it is.
And he was a master of this and pushed it very, very hard.
Now we can get into a little bit more of his, what he says are his reflections and suggestions.
And if in this book, if you, if you do end up getting this book, I'm basically skipping
the war part.
The entire book is about what he did and how he did it.
And I'm skipping that.
And I've said this before because I like to know about what they did and how they did it
because that is important.
But I like to know why they did it and what they were thinking and what principles they were
following in this book, beautifully breaks it down.
Again, it's written by him.
But it breaks down what he was thinking, why he did take these actions and what his strategies
and tactics were.
And this is great because he starts off saying something that's very similar to what
life and I say in the beginning of our book, which is like we didn't invent this stuff.
So here's General George Aspat and saying the same thing.
Probably there is nothing original in what I shall now put down because war is an ancient
subject.
And I, an ancient man, has studied and practiced it for over 40 years.
So what appears to me as original thought may be simply subconscious memories.
So he's saying, I didn't necessarily think of all this.
Then late for night in the beginning of our book say the same thing.
Concerning the soldier, the soldier is the army.
No army is better than its soldiers.
The soldier is also a citizen. In fact, the highest obligation and privilege of citizenship
is that of bearing arms for one's country.
Hence, it is a privilege to be a soldier, a good soldier.
To be a good soldier, a man must have discipline, self-respect, pride in his unit and his
country.
A high sense of duty and obligation to his comrades and to his superiors and self-confidence
and born of demonstrated ability.
His number one characteristic was discipline, which should come as no surprise.
There has been and is now a great deal of talk about discipline.
But few people in or out of the army know what it is or why it is necessary.
No sane man is unafraid in battle.
But discipline produces in him a form of vicarious courage, which, with his manhood, makes
for victory.
Self-respect grows directly from discipline.
Self-confidence, the greatest military virtue, results from the demonstrated ability derived
from the acquisition of all the preceding qualities and from exercise in the use of weapons.
So self-confidence comes from practice and skill.
And that's derived from discipline.
Discipline is clearly a subject we talk about quite a bit.
And it's important in the military is cannot be overstated.
It really can't be.
And I would go so far as to tell you that discipline is important and life cannot be overstated.
The root of all good characteristics is the discipline.
Battles are won by fire and by movement.
The purpose of movement is to get the fire in a more advantageous place to play on the
enemy.
This is from the rear or the flank.
You can hear this guy talk about flanks all the time.
He's going to talk about fire moves.
He's going to talk about cover move as life and I call that narbuck.
Cover move.
And this is again, this is teamwork.
Teamwork constantly working with your team and your other teams that are with you to make
sure that if I'm putting down cover fire, you're moving.
You're moving.
And when you're putting down cover fire, I'm moving.
You've got to work together to make that happen.
And every business in the world has multiple little units in it that have to cover
and move.
Talking about bravery and courage.
If we take the generally accepted definition of bravery as a quality which knows not fear,
I have never seen a brave man.
All men are frightened.
The more intelligent they are, the more frightened they are.
The courageous man is the man who forces himself in spite of his fear to carry on.
And where does that come from?
It comes from discipline, pride, self respect, self confidence and the love of glory are
attributes which will make a man courageous even when he is afraid.
There's not too many people.
I mean, you would hack worth would never talk about the love of glory and just not his
deal, not his deal.
When you mentioned about bravery, how you were talking with Sam Harris about it, where
bravery is only present if you are scared of something because if you're not scared of it,
you're not being brave till overcome anything or to go to do any kind of activity that's
you're scared of.
So the very, although I don't know if I necessarily agree with that because there's guys
that are, he says he's never seen anyone that's not afraid.
I see him pretty cool.
I mean, it's almost the word to use.
It's crazy.
As it are just so brave in you look at him and you go, this guy's going to sky.
I had guys with me, you know, in my task unit and some of those guys were so brave that
I didn't think they were going to make it home.
And is it because they were like, it's like they weren't scared to die at all.
I could do it.
And you see the almost a lack of self preservation, you know, not stupid, not suicidal.
But like, oh, this guy doesn't think he can be killed.
You know, we were talking about that on the last podcast.
I never forget the name of the major that was on the beach landing at Toro, I think, and
he's up and he's like, hey, look, they can't hit me.
Come on.
Yeah.
I've seen guys do that.
So as far as actual bravery goes though, so would you consider that, like, let's say,
okay, two guys are going to go, go do some, let's say an MMA fight, right?
And one guy's just really scared of competing in front of people.
It's his first fight or something like that.
Then you have this other guy who's not, who just feels different.
Same exact situation, but he's like fired up.
He's not scared at all.
And they both go into it.
Do they both exercise the same bravery?
Yeah, I don't know.
You know, and I don't know if it matters.
Yeah.
For one thing I can tell you, the guy that's acting like he's not scared is probably the one
that's more scared with MMA fights.
And it's an actually, see that combat, two guys that are overly, like, bravado are probably
more scared.
And again, there's nothing wrong with that.
I'm not holding it against him.
But I've seen guys sitting in briefs to go out on operations that you can tell are petrified.
Yeah.
Usually it's a guy that's not used to it.
Maybe someone that's visiting in an area of operations and shows up and it's, oh, we're
going to take you on an operation.
And you get to see them.
They're scared because they're not used to it.
All the guys from my task, you know, they might be scared, but they're confident.
You know what they're doing.
Right.
They've put that fear aside over and over again.
So it's not that big of a deal, but you see a guy dealing with that fear for the first
time.
And especially stands out because you've got a bunch of confident guys that know that understand
that understand the risks.
So you can see their faces.
And then you see like that guy that's coming from another area and is going to go out
in operation.
And their, their tap and their toes during the brief and they're looking around.
Yeah.
And they got to overcome that fear.
And if they stay there for a few weeks, they'll get used to it, too.
Yeah.
So it could kind of be looked at as just the act itself, whatever act, if it's understood
as being.
Sam Harris's point was that it doesn't matter.
If there's a machine gun nest and you're horrified to go charge it and I'm not.
And we both got charged it.
You just had to pretend that you weren't scared.
It doesn't matter.
You still be a brave.
Right.
And I didn't have to pretend.
But I'm being brave.
So it doesn't matter what you're pretending or not.
You're brave if you go.
Right.
And we're maybe just to overcome or do something that's understood generally as being
scary.
Just as not scared.
Yeah.
Yes, scary.
You're still being just as brave.
You are.
But yeah.
And I guess in a real black and white term, it's like, if you're not scared of this activity,
you're doing and you do it.
And you're not scared of it.
And you're not being brave.
And that's just in generally speaking.
Like, you know, it's good example skydivers.
Yeah.
With 5,000 jumps, they're not scared anymore.
I mean, I know even when I've done like 50 jumps, you're not really scared anymore.
You're just doing it.
And guys that have thousands of jumps, they're not scared at all.
That's what they do.
Right.
So they're not being brave.
They're just doing their job.
They're just doing their thing.
Yeah.
So what if some guys jump in out for the first time and he's scared and he
overcomes that fear and jumps out.
He is being brave.
Yeah.
Right.
So yeah, this kind of a point.
Yeah.
So if I go outside and check the mail, I'm not being brave.
No, you're not doing brave.
But what if there's like a tiger or something out there?
And I really want to be brave.
That's pretty brave.
Right.
Tigers going after tigers.
Yeah.
You're right.
Section here.
Small unit tactics.
Hey, you guys question to whether I wanted to put this in there.
But I know that I'm getting a lot of feedback from guys that are in the military.
You guys that are in SWAT.
And this is something that I used to talk about.
And I know it's true.
Squads should seldom be split.
So you want to keep your forces together as much as possible.
However, if it isn't necessary to split a squad, be sure that the unit separated as
at least capable of mutual support.
So this is something I used to hammer the seals about it.
You get too far away from your other unit where you can't support them anymore.
That's problematic now.
Now that other units alone.
And that means that each unit that separates should have the ability to support.
It means it has to have some firepower and some strength.
This means that the unit separated from the squad should have not fewer than three
men.
The squad possesses in itself weapons necessary for a base and fire and maneuvering element.
This should be an...
This should be...
It's in variable method of attack.
But the squad leader should not spend so much time thinking which way he is going to
develop that he suffers casualties which would have been avoided had he attacked at once.
So don't hesitate, don't sit around when it's time to get it on.
Patents all about the taking action.
Another small unit tactic.
This is a short one.
Always capture the highest terrain feature in your vicinity at once and stay on it.
And that is something that we executed all the time in Ramadhi.
Get in the high ground, get in those buildings, find the three story building amongst
the two story building, find the two story building amongst the one story building.
Always looking for that high ground.
In the rural areas, any kind of no one can bump anything that gives you the high ground.
He isn't what you're looking for.
And as I said last time, from an ethical and from a moral standpoint, take the high ground
or the high ground.
I'm gonna take you.
You gotta watch out for that.
Don't delay.
The best is the enemy of the good.
And these are, I mean, that's just a common saying now.
By this I mean, that a good plan violently executed now is better than a perfect plan
next week.
More is a very simple thing and the determining characteristics are self-confidence, speed,
and audacity.
None of these things can ever be perfect, but they can be good.
He's talking about now general officers, meaning the senior leaders.
And he's applied to every unit, not just senior leaders.
There are more tired division commanders than there are tired divisions.
Tired officers are always pessimists.
Remember this when evaluating reports.
Generals must never show doubt, discouragement or fatigue.
Generals should always adhere to one type of dress so that soldiers will recognize them.
They must always be very neat.
And most importantly, for my perspective, I like what he says here.
In cold weather, general officers must be careful not to appear to dress more warmly
than the men.
You don't want to do that. You don't want to be in the comfort zone when the boys are
suffering.
You look like you're debating.
No, no, no, no, I'm not debating.
I was thinking about it.
I'm not thinking about it.
I'm thinking about to get shut down.
I'm the question.
Send the question.
So let's say you're a boss, right?
You have this office and this office is like decked up.
Meanwhile, everyone on your team may have normal offices.
Is that an example of what he's against?
No, generally because you actually do have more work to do.
You have you have to have meetings in your office.
And, and it's interesting, too, because I didn't highlight it in this for this series,
but they were saying that general patent wasn't a four star general.
He was a 28 star general because when he would put us full uniform on, he had four stars
on this collar on each collar, four star and each shoulder, four stars on the helmet,
and four stars on each one of the handles of his pit of his pearl handled pistol grip.
45.
So the guy was like a little bit of, I mean, that's a, that's a showman.
That's a, that's a, that's a, that's a diva, right?
So he didn't, you know, he knew that there's a certain amount of showmanship to being
at a leadership position.
And that sort of what he's talking about by being recognizable.
I mean, he was a very recognizable.
He had stars all over his cars and everything.
Yeah.
So it's more like the comfort of a battle, so.
Yeah, but you could, you could, as a CEO, you could absolutely take that.
To the wrong level where you're, you know, just living in total luxury, you know,
your people out and, you know, cramped into cubicles that, you know, your,
your folks would definitely look at you in a negative way.
Yeah.
But to, but to have what's needed for the job, you know,
when I was to you commander, I had an office that was mine, you know,
and I had space in there to work.
But I wasn't, you know, shipping in stakes for me to have every night while
the men were eating.
Right. Right.
M-O-E-Z.
Yeah.
So just got to be careful.
Keep yourself in check a little bit.
Well, when you travel, you go first class.
Meanwhile, you send your team in coach.
That, once again, sometimes the boss is traveling for a
class because when he lands, he's got to present.
And he's got to, he's got to be a little bit better rested.
Sometimes the boss man is just sick of being cramped in a little tiny
seats.
Hmm.
Well, yeah, you do got to keep that in check.
And I'll tell you when I, when I worked for the Admiral of all the seals,
we didn't fly first class.
We were in the cheap seats.
They are very careful about that.
They don't want to think that the, oh, the military elite is flying around
first class.
No, we were in the cheap seats sitting in the back of Delta, you know,
you know, you'd be nuts.
Yeah.
There's so many justifiable reasons in business.
And I think you would go along with that too.
But you just got to use your judgment.
You got to use your judgment and make sure that, you know,
everyone's wearing, you know, a ten year old field jacket
when it gets cold and you're wearing a brand new down and
Gore-Tex jacket.
You're people are going to not respect you.
Yeah.
You know, you can't just deck yourself out when the boys,
or the troopers are suffering.
Yeah.
And then how he mentioned where or how you mentioned what he's talking about
where it can be categorized as being recognizable.
Right.
So there's a lot of things even stuff outside of just uniform that a CEO
how he presents himself that'll keep him recognizable.
Yeah.
For all these reasons, but I'm sure I'm sure most of the time no one's perfect
where they're going to start doing it this year.
But you do have to.
And you know, there's good, there's good business leaders now that
follow this type of lead. I mean, look at some of these new younger
businesses.
Yeah.
I get decked out.
So a picture of the guy that runs Facebook as saw pictures
caused the other days got like a bunch of gray t-shirts in there.
Right.
And from what I hear, I'm like, been to the office and nothing.
He, he doesn't have an office.
He, there's this open space, everyone's coding and
something like that.
And he's just cruising in there as well.
Yeah.
So yeah, there's, yeah, I guess this all kinds of
people are late to have a bit more.
Yeah.
I guess they've depend on the businesses.
However, this part is undivatable.
A general officer who will invariably assume the responsibility for failure
whether he deserves it or not and invariably gives credit for success
to others whether they deserve it or not will achieve outstanding success.
So a little something that we call extreme ownership.
So that's the name of our book, someone that's taking ownership.
This Georgia is patting.
Sorry for jacking your ideas, Georgia.
Yeah.
I think that's crazy how that was such a prominent idea back then.
Because like growing up and I don't know, I just never heard about that.
I know.
And when LaFanite presented this book to people, they don't say, oh,
this is a very common theme that I've heard my whole life know they go.
This is outstanding.
We're saying the exact same thing the general Georgia's patent saying right here, which is obviously extremely important.
Issuing orders.
The best way to issue orders is by word of mouth from one general to the next, failing this telephone
conversations which should be recorded at each end.
However, in order to have a confirmatory memorandum of all orders given a short written order
should always be made out, not necessarily at the time of issuing the order, but it should reach the junior prior to carrying out the order.
So that if he has forgotten anything, he will be reminded of it and further in order that he may be aware that his senior has taken
definite responsibility for the operation ordered or late.
This is something that I used to do this all the time.
If I had a conversation with my boss, I still do it to this day.
If I have a conversation with someone and we talk about something, I'm following it up a little email.
Because also oral conversations, people hear what they want to hear.
And they might hear two different things.
If I tell you, hey, we're going to record this podcast.
Hey, can we record this podcast on Saturday?
You're like, oh, yeah, definitely.
Does that mean we are?
Does that mean in your mind you think we are, but I didn't come back.
You know, so I just follow stuff up and I used to do that in the sealed teams too.
You know, I get an order I'd get a conversation with.
I'm going to know that was either above me or below me or whatever, I'd follow it up with an email of what I thought the conversation meant.
And say, hey, just to confirm what we talked about.
Here's the three bullet points.
I'm going to do this.
You're going to do that.
We're going to do this and boom, it's done.
And we have a document of it and it exists and that way we're confirmed.
Yeah, and so how you bring up that example, where if you say, hey, can we record a podcast on Saturday?
Technically, you just, that's a yes or no question.
Yes, we can.
We have that ability.
That's not you didn't schedule anything, technically.
You said, so I could have taken it either way.
And you could be like, yeah, we can.
And I show up here today and you're, oh, yeah, I didn't know we're actually going to do it.
You just said, you know, when I first started getting more higher in clients,
it was immediately noticeable that that was a common thing.
They'd always follow up with an email right after.
Help so much, man.
It does.
You got to do it.
It is my, this, I love this.
It is my opinion that Army orders should not exceed a page and a half of type written text.
And it was my practice not to issue orders longer than this.
Usually they can be done on one page and the back of the page is used for a sketch map.
And what my favorite part about this is,
if you get someone that can't give you their orders,
they're in like a page, yeah,
then that means their orders are too complicated.
Yeah, if they means they need to simplify their plan.
And he's going to say this a few times.
Commanders must remember that the issuance of an order or the devising of a plan is only about five percent of the responsibility of command.
The other 95 percent is to ensure by personal observation or through
interposing of staff officers that the order is carried out.
Or there must be issued early enough to permit time disseminate them.
So he's saying like, it's only five percent of your job to come up with a plan and disseminate the plan.
The other 95 percent of your job is to make sure it happens.
Take an ownership of the plan and get it implemented.
And this is the most important part of this section.
Never tell people how to do things, tell them what and they tell them what to do,
and they will surprise you with their ingenuity.
So you want to give them sort of the broad,
hey, this is what I want you to get done and let them figure out how to do it.
You're not going to be able to tell everybody on your team.
What to do and do it and all that.
You've got to let them run.
Yeah.
You've got to use the little decentralized command as we like to say.
Yeah, in the creative world, that's a really, really significant thing to say what you want and then let that person do it.
Because if you have some creative vision,
let's do a little critique of Jockel, how do I do with that?
Because you're sort of the creative end here.
Yeah.
And how am I?
Good.
As well.
I do.
I say, you know what echo here is what I think.
Yeah.
And then I just back away and let you run with your game.
And that's the, yeah.
That's the way it goes.
I don't know.
I'm sure it's equally as applicable everywhere.
Yeah.
I realize that I can't.
When you've got an expert, you know,
it's the same thing or it was in the teams, the same thing in the business world.
If you're the big boss man, you shouldn't, you're not going to know how to do all the technical things at the folks on the front line.
You're not going to have the creativity because you have the capability because you've got other things you should be worried about.
Yeah.
So get on those other things and let your people run.
Let them run.
And this,
it is sad to remember that when anyone has fairly mastered the art of command,
the necessity for that art usually expires either through the termination of the war or through the advanced age of the commander.
And this is just a, this is just a damn shame.
And it's the way it is.
And it's, it's just, it's just way in the military.
You're, the, when you start feeling like you've really gotten good at that job, you're onto your next job.
Mm-hmm.
And that doesn't feel good.
It's, it's a, it's a bummer.
Um.
And then there was a little.
Example when I talked about him being ultra aggressive.
And this is from a section.
This is from a section which I didn't take.
I don't think I took much out of it all.
This one's called or this section was called or ring my pay.
He talks about these important decisions that he made.
But they're, they're, they take, they're a little bit complex.
Some of them.
But this one was fairly concise about the fifth of September.
It became apparent that we would run out of gasoline.
He's talking about for his tanks.
We would run out of gasoline.
I directed the two core to continue the advance until the tanks ran out of gas and then to go on on foot.
This was actually done and the bridge head across the Mazzel River was secured as a result.
There was considerable resistance on the part of the core commanders to do what appeared to them.
And unnecessarily gained your operation.
It's success again proved that it was not dangerous.
So that's pretty aggressive.
Hey, you drive until the tanks run out of gas and the tanks run out of gas.
Get out of the tanks and walk.
Yeah.
That's pretty legit.
We used to say like, hey, in the sealed teams, hey, we're going to take the boats.
The boats run out of gas.
We'll tow the boats.
If the tow and boats run out of gas, we'll get out and swim.
We'll keep going until we get it done.
Letter of instruction number two.
So these are what these are what this guy and I love this.
This is what this guy was writing as instructions to be handed out to all of his men.
I mean, and this is documented.
So you wonder what patent thinks about you have to wonder.
It's right here.
So here's his letter of instruction number two.
Discipline.
There is only one sort of discipline.
Perfect discipline.
Men cannot have good battle discipline and poor administrative discipline.
Discipline is based on pride in the profession of arms, on meticulous attention to detail,
and on mutual respect and confidence.
Discipline must be a habit so ingrained that it is stronger than the excitement of battle or the fear of death.
And this is why it's every day and every decision that you make and keeping that discipline.
And I actually have been here and you know, here that this, this, that you will power deteriorates.
And I actually don't believe that.
I think the more they say, oh, you know, throughout the day you will power if you test it too many times.
It gets weaker and weaker and I actually don't believe that.
I actually believe it gets stronger.
Mind gets stronger.
When I'm, the more I hold the line, the stronger the hold is, the better the grip is.
And that's the day by day.
And normally like it's all together.
It's all good together.
When you wake up early and you get your workout in,
you just stay on track.
You're like, you know what?
I'm not going to eat that food that I don't need right now.
You know, it's so much easier.
But the day when you're like, I didn't work.
I woke up late and I didn't get my workout done.
And you know what?
There's a donut.
You know, and it'd be you break down.
So you want to, you want to use the discipline discipline and forces discipline.
Yeah.
Discipline more discipline makes more discipline.
It kind of seems like that it would be just like any other exercise.
Yeah.
Exercising your discipline.
So, and maybe I don't know, but maybe this is what that means when they say eight.
You're, you're, will power wears down.
Let's say you're trying to stick to this diet, right?
And you're going to be like, hey, I'm not going to let myself get too hungry.
Because when I let myself get too hungry, I know that don't not seem way more viable.
The donuts are not viable.
But, you know, as far as the pay off, you know, debtor, it, you know, it's like basically,
so if I test my willpower, I'm just saying throughout the span of a day or, you know, however many hours when you start to get hungry.
So, they're saying, okay, so let's say you take your hunger to a certain point then you say, you know what?
I'm going to stick to stay strong.
Usually I eat way before this, but I'm real hungry.
I really want those donuts, but you know what?
I'm going to stick with it, right? And you have that one experience of taking your hunger to a certain point and still sticking to it.
You do that. You let your hunger go on for even more.
That's your willpower wearing down wearing down.
But, let's say you stuck to it, boom, and you stuck to it that day, then the next day, you have experience going that far and your hunger.
And you will be stronger and know how to deal with it.
I actually, I also disagree with you.
I think that when you stay strong, you get stronger and when you break, like I don't often just happen, all just have one bite of that donut.
For me, every single time, and then you have that one bite of what happens, that donut scoop.
Yeah, every single one bite, ten bites, so that's what I'm saying.
Stay strong. Hold your discipline in place.
Yeah, so to compare that to like a workout, right? So let's say I do a hard set of, I don't know, pushups.
Then I do another hard set of pushups. I'm going to be less strong on that second set.
And I do another set. I keep testing it.
But the next day or the next week, I'm going to have benefits from that workout.
Yeah, so it does reinforce.
So the workout, the fatigue is that temporary fatigue, then you recover from it and then your stronger and the weight.
But I think the better example is, like, when you say no to the one bite, you are, it's easier to say no to the whole donut.
Yeah, when you say yes to the one bite, it's easier to say yes to the whole donut.
So say no to the one bite.
Yeah, keep your discipline intact.
Yeah, man.
Discipline back to the book.
Discipline can only be obtained when officers are so imbued with the sense of their awful obligation to their men and to their country that they cannot tolerate negligence.
Officers who fail to correct errors or to praise excellent are valueless and peace and dangerous misfits in war.
So he's giving equal equal importance to correcting errors and praising excellence.
You can see how important that is.
And that's something that I've never been very good at. I was never a big praiser of excellence.
And in reading this, I look back and say, I should have done that more.
Officers must assert themselves by example and by voice, they must be preeminent, encouraged, deportment and dress.
One of the primary purposes of discipline is to produce alertness, a man who is so a phargeic that he fails to salute will fall in easy victim to the enemy.
So the discipline just keeps you on track combat experiences proven that ceremonies such as formal guard mounts, formal retreat formations and regular and supervised revelations are a great help and in some cases essential to prepare men and officers for battle.
To give them that perfect discipline, that smartness of appearance, that alertness without which battles cannot be won.
And this is something, you know, the seal teams for sure are very undisciplined when it comes to uniforms when it comes to march.
I mean, we don't march. I mean, we barely can get in. Whenever a bunch of seals have to do something militaristic, it's usually a pretty we have to dumb it down and make it as easy as possible.
Because we just don't do it enough. And that's just, I'm just, I'm kind of stating that because we spend all of our time, you know, when we're, when we're practicing for war, we're not doing anything ceremonial.
We practice for war. So this is kind of a funny little dichotomy there is that seals generally are not ready for military inspection, but they're ready for combat.
So there's a little, little hypocritical item about that combat principles. Number one, there is no approved solution to any tactical situation.
Little theme of creativity coming back again. There's no approved solution you got to figure it out.
There's only one tactical principle which is not subject to change. It is to use the means at hand to inflict the maximum amount of wounds, death and destruction on the enemy in the minimum amount of time.
That's a pretty simple and straightforward principle. And according to general patent, it does not change.
Battles are won by frightening the enemy.
Fear is induced by inflicting death and wounds on him. Death and wounds are produced by fire.
Fire from the rear is more deadly and three times more effective than that from the front.
But to get fire behind the enemy, you must hold him by frontal fire and move rapidly around his flank.
Frontal attacks against prepared positions should be avoided if possible. I told you he's going to talk about flanks. He's talking about flanks.
Catch the enemy by the nose with fire and kick him in the pants with fire and place through movement. That's flanks.
You can get too strong. Get every man and gun you can secure. Provided is not unduly delay your attack.
We bring on a mission and I'd get some kind of restriction like, hey, we only want you to bring this many guys and I'd say, well, this is in soccer.
We're only allowed to bring 11 per side. Why would I not bring 38 if I can bring 38? Why would I stop myself at 287?
You know, bring as many people as you can. Let's go. Let's rock and roll.
The larger force and the more violence you use in the attack, whether it be men, tanks or ammunition, the smaller will be your proportional losses.
Violence of action is what we used to call that in the sealed teams. Violence of action.
Never yield ground. It is cheaper to hold what you have than to retake what you have lost.
Never permit a unit to dig in until the final objective is reached. Then dig wire and mine. So you can't rest until you get too good spot.
This is the little statement I do in the audience. It's coaching because people, they get in a position and they rest before it's time to rest.
You've got to get the guard back. If someone pass your guard, you don't settle there on your back and let them settle in and start to smash you.
As soon as someone passes your guard, you're recovering. You don't settle down until you're back to a good position.
I can never do that. I noticed that and I actually brought it up to you.
Last week or whatever, when we were old, I was like, there's something that I noticed about you that and that was that in the scramble.
You won't just settle and hang out in my guard. You don't even accept the guard.
Talks about it a long time ago before, but it was a free for whatever reason. Just really prevalent that day. In the scramble, scramble goes on for, let's say, a longer time. Let's say the scramble goes on for six seconds.
Pretty long scramble. It seems like you still wouldn't. You wouldn't even stop the scramble until you're beyond the guard.
You won't just hang out when me. I thought, right in that guard. Give my rest on. But it's surprisingly painfully effective.
Yeah. I was talking to Dean about that yesterday. If Dean isn't a mindset where he's accepting a guard pass or he's accepting, it becomes a much, much easier game.
When he decides he's not going to let you settle until he gets to the advantage of position, it's a nightmare.
Yeah. Because he won't stop moving and he's a good scramble. Yeah. Yeah.
You know what's interesting about these, I have a note in here that, you know, he said, never yield ground never permitted units dig in. He says never.
And that's something that I don't own say, right? Because it takes away the fact that of what he said earlier about there's no written rule. There's no proved method.
You shouldn't use that word never because sometimes you should yield ground.
Right. And sometimes you should dig in even when the final objective is so I know he's just being extreme, but it is I did make a note of that to point out.
General training back to the book.
More emphasis will be placed on the hardening of men and officers. All soldiers and officers should be able to run a mile with combat pack in 10 minutes and March 8 miles and two hours.
The hardening of men and officers. He goes on to say, sharpen axes, pick axes and shovels now and keep them sharp.
That's just an attitude, right? Look, the pick axe that you're going to use to dig in, make it sharp.
In case you get a hack somebody's brain out. Keep it sharp. Yeah.
Battles are fought by platoons and squads. Place emphasis on small unit combat instructions so that it's conducted in the same precision as close to order drill.
A good solution applied with vigor now is better than a perfect solution 10 minutes later. Come and theme.
Needless requirements.
He's actually got a section here called Needless Requirements. There is a tendency and I used to see this in the military and I see it in businesses now.
This is the Needless Requirements. There is a tendency for the chain of command to overload junior officers by excessive requirements in a way of training and reports.
You will alleviate this burden by eliminating non-essential demands. You go to any business and they've got reports that people are generating and meetings that they're attending in conference calls.
That's what this is about. Those are needless requirements.
I think people just like meetings because it helps them think or feel like doing something.
You make meetings 20 minutes long.
Just call on the phone.
Yes.
Make your meetings 20 minutes long. If you have to schedule them show up on the meeting ready to do need to learn anything.
It's for the decision.
You can get informed by reading a quick, bolded list.
Go over those bullets with me when I already did that.
I'm going to ask questions.
Discussion piece.
Let's say there's a meeting of 10 guys.
Three four guys are discussing stuff and maybe they're trying to solve this problem that they specifically have and then the other few guys
They feel compelled to want to be contributing to the meetings so they say more of the stuff that's so unnecessary just so they can have something to say in the meeting.
The sidebar taking somewhere else. You've angered echo people.
The meetings.
Yeah.
Keep in 20 minutes.
There's a whole lot of people in America in business world that are listening to that.
Needless requirements.
And they're thinking about, could needless requirements.
They fulfill in a daily basis.
And it makes the mangreary.
It's a source of frustration.
I talk to folks about it all the time.
They feel like they don't have time to do their job.
I'm like, are you serious?
We have to do fill out this document, attend another call with the so-and-so commander.
Just tell me, give me the highlights and let me do my work.
I got to job the do-vier people.
Infantry.
Infantry must move in order to close with the, in order to close with the enemy.
It must shoot in order to move.
Again, there's covering move.
Infysical targets are not visible.
The fire of all infantry weapons must search the area occupied by the enemy.
Use marching fire.
It reduces the accuracy of his fire and increases our confidence.
Shoot short.
Ricochet's make nasty sounds and wounds.
That's something that they say,
I'll us do all the time and seal teams.
So you don't, you make sure you're shooting low.
If you're going to make a mistake, aim low.
So the rounds hit in front of where the enemy is.
And they ricochet up and they hit in with all kinds of frag and rocks.
And you have a chance of still hitting them.
If you shoot over there, head and it misses them.
Yeah, gotcha.
Interesting.
To halt under fire is folly.
To halt under fire and not fire back is suicide.
And this is what we're just talking about in Gjitsu.
To halt under fire, that's what you're doing.
When you let me keep scrambling, when you stop scrambling,
that's what I'm going to get a little bit of a fight.
You're halt to go under fire and guess what?
It says here that that is suicide.
Move forward out of fire.
Officers must set the example.
Few men are killed by the bayonet.
Many are scared by it.
Bayonet should be fixed when the firefight starts.
Bayonet must be sharpened by the individual soldier.
The German hates the bayonet and is inferior to our men with it.
Our men should know this.
A little psychological warfare here.
You've got to sharpen your own bayonet.
You're better at it than the enemy.
Put that thing on the end of your gun when the firefight starts and get ready to get some.
Yeah.
That's general pattern right there.
Keeping it real.
I want to work for general pattern.
Hmm.
Care of men.
Officers are responsible, not only for the conduct of their men in battle,
but also for their health and contentment when not fighting.
An officer and this will be going back to the CEO and how they act.
An officer must be the last man to take shelter from fire and the first to move forward.
Similarly, he must be the last man to look after his own comfort at the close of a march.
He must see that his men are cared for.
The officer must constantly inrest himself in the rations of the men.
He should know his men so well that any sign of sickness or nervous strain will be apparent to him.
And he can take such action as maybe necessary.
Same thing we were talking about.
And we're about to wrap this up here with a couple more.
And I kind of saved the best for last to be quite honest with you.
Such as this right here, command leadership.
This is actually another letter of instructions.
So again, this is just what you want to know what how general pattern fought.
Here it is.
His own words on what he wanted his men to know as they prepared for combat.
Leadership.
Full duty.
Each in his appropriate sphere will lead in person.
Any commander who fails to obtain his objective and who is not dead or severely wounded has not done his full duty.
Doesn't need to be much clearer than that.
There's your standard.
If you're not dead or severely wounded and you haven't achieved your objective, you haven't done your full duty.
Visits to the front.
The commanding general is chief of staff should visit the front daily.
The function of these is to observe not to metal.
In addition to their own specialty, they must observe and report anything of military importance.
Remember that praise is more valuable than blame.
So if you're going to go to the front line troops, don't go there and blame them.
Remember to that your primary mission as a leader is to see with your own eyes and be seen by your troops while engaged in personal reconnaissance.
Execution.
In carrying out a mission, the promigation of the order represents not over 10% of your responsibility.
The remaining 90% consists in assuring by means of personal supervision on the ground by yourself and your staff.
Proper and vigorous execution.
And that's when we already talked about.
Yeah, you put together the plan.
Yeah, you disseminated the plan.
That's great.
Your job is to make it happen and ensure that it happens.
Take ownership of it and execute it.
Plans.
Plans must be simple and flexible.
Actually, they are only a form of data plane from which you build as necessity directs or opportunity offers.
So he's saying that plan is just just something to build off of as as necessity directs or opportunity offers.
I got asked this the other day at an event.
So when do you know when it's time to change the plan?
When necessity directs or opportunity offers.
That's when you make the change.
Plans should be made by the people who are going to execute them.
Formal orders.
Formal orders will be preceded by letters of instruction and by personal conferences.
In this way, the whole purpose of the operation will be made clear together with the mission to be accomplished by each major unit.
So he's saying that the whole purpose of the operation will be made clear.
So that if during combat, during combat communication breaks down,
each commander can and must so act as to obtain the general objective.
There you go.
So if you understand what the overall broad mission is when we go out to attack in all of a sudden, you're separated from us or you don't can't communicate with us or any more.
Or something happens and you're making adjustment your plan as long as you know what the broad mission is.
The whole purpose of the operation which later ended up being called the commanders intent.
That's what we called it in the modern military.
If long as you know what the commanders intent is with the intent of the operation, then you can execute on your own.
You don't need any more direction for me.
Yeah.
Go and make it happen.
Keep your own orders short.
Get them out in time.
Issue them personally by voice when you can.
Keep troops informed.
Use every means before and after combat to tell the troops what they are doing to go what they are going to do and what they have done.
Reiterating discipline.
There's only one kind of discipline, perfect discipline. If you do not enforce and maintain discipline, you are potential mergers.
You must set the example.
Condition.
High physical condition is vital to victory.
We talked about that and we talked about that all the time.
Your physical conditioning.
High physical condition is vital to victory.
There are more tired core and division commanders than there are tired core and divisions.
Fatigue makes cowards of us all.
Men in condition do not tire.
So you've got to be in shape.
And here's the clothes.
This is the last one.
And it's the shortest one.
And it's probably the most important one to remember from general patent.
Courage.
Do not take counsel of your fears.
And that's it.
That's what he had to say about courage to all of his troops as they embarked on this intense combat day after day week after week.
And you want to know what you do with your fear. Do not take counsel of your fears.
No vote. They don't get a vote.
Your fears don't get a vote.
So next time you feel that fear no matter what it is, it's pretty easy.
You don't take counsel of it. They get no vote.
That's general patent.
Great book. Great leader.
Lots to learn. Lots to pass on.
War as I knew it.
Questions from the interwebs.
Yeah.
First question.
Jocca Willick is BJJ really practical for street defense where there are no rules.
My understanding is that it doesn't fare well against knives and multiple attackers.
I think I've got to do something like Krav Maga, Laitai, Boxing.
So this is a good question.
Obviously.
And it's a question that we get a lot.
I actually did a video.
We did a video like this and Tim Ferriss put it out.
So you can look for that if you kind of want to hear another version of this.
Maybe we could link to it on Jocco podcast.
I think we can do that. Yeah. Excellent.
What? Okay. So self defense.
We're talking about true self defense here.
First and foremost, most important thing.
And I actually didn't say this on the last video.
But I should say it now.
Is situational awareness.
And putting yourself in good situations where bad things are not going to happen to you
and doing that to the best you ability and being aware of your surroundings.
That's of the very important first step in self defense.
Second.
Guns.
If you are a person that really needs to defend yourself and you live in a horrible area
and there's violent people around and you might be a small, very small person
or you might be elderly or you might have some sort of a physical limitation.
Then how you're going to defend yourself is using guns.
Using a gun.
So I mean that's just the way it is.
Now, okay. So that being said.
Maybe you can't have a gun. Maybe you don't have a gun.
And you don't always want to have to pull a gun out.
Even though a gun is a great deterrent.
And most people, if they see that you have a gun or not,
they don't want to fight you anymore.
But obviously you can't be just yanking a gun out of anything that happens
and you don't always have them with you.
For instance, you know, in certain places you're not allowed to have a gun.
In the water if you're surfing, you're not allowed to have a gun.
So what do you do?
How does GG2 stack up against these other martial arts?
I say that you should learn GG2 first.
Should be the first martial art that you try and learn to defend yourself.
And there's a reason for that.
There's a bunch of reasons for that.
Number one, it ends sort of a base reason.
But GG2 is probably the most complex to learn.
There's the most three-dimensional martial art.
It's not linear.
It's very three-dimensional.
There's a ton to learn.
It's infinite.
And what you can learn.
So you want to get into it early because it's going to take longer to learn.
But that's actually the second-dairy reason.
The primary reason to learn GG2 first is because of the nature of self-defense situations.
So we are born with our primary form of self-defense.
And we've learned it from a very young age.
And our primary form of self-defense will keep you safe from most of these situations.
And that is running and using your legs to run.
So, and if you think of now think about this, you're kind of chuckling
because you don't understand the gravity of what I'm saying.
Because it's very accurate.
So listen.
We're talking about self-defense.
We're talking about offense.
We're talking about defense.
How do you stay safe?
So if I square off with you and I want to fight and punch you run away,
I'm not holding on to you run away.
If there's me and three of my friends run away.
If I have a knife and I'm going to try and stab you run away.
So all these kind of attacks, they're disconnected attack.
I'm not holding on to you.
So run away from me.
Get out of there.
Run into a public place.
Run to where there's other people that can help you.
Run.
Where this changes is when somebody grabs a hold of you.
When somebody grabs a hold of you, you can no longer run away.
And you have to be able to make them un-grab you.
Let go of you.
And how do you do that?
You do that by knowing how to grapple.
And grapple is you, just you.
So that is why the first thing you should learn is you get to.
Because if someone's not grabbing a hold of you, run away from them.
If someone's trying to square off and go toe to toe with you, run away from them.
If there's five guys that want to fight you, run away from them.
If someone pulls out a knife on you, run.
But here's the deal.
If that person knocks you down and gets on top of you, you can't run anymore.
So what do you have to do?
You have to grapple them and you have to know your jitsu to get them up and offer you and get away from them
or submit them and put them to sleep or break their arm.
That is why you should start with your jitsu.
Pretty straightforward.
Once you know jitsu, absolutely. Learn moi tie. Learn wrestling.
Learn boxing. Learn krav maga. Learn a screamin.
It learn everything you can about fighting.
Do it, of course.
But set your base with the one that you're going to need if somebody grabs you.
And that's jiu jitsu.
The other thing about jiu jitsu is it's pretty easy to add in.
Some of these other more animalistic self-defense situations.
So if somebody grabs you and pulls you to the ground and you want to get away from them,
yeah, you can, you need to know your body positions, but it's pretty easy to decide you're going to bite their ear off
or take a big chunk out of their face with your teeth or jam your fingers into their eyes.
It's not hard to augment that stuff.
So these are all things you can do within jiu jitsu that jiu jitsu does not hamper that ability to be savage in your attacks on people.
Yeah, and that's interesting you bring up because everyone's heard the guy,
we're he'll be like, hey, what's that jiu jitsu?
Whatever. And then, I don't know, you show them or you explain it.
And they'll be like, oh, well, I'll just, I'll just gouge your eyes out right here.
Or I just, you know, I don't know, strike your throat or something like this, right?
So take the eye gouging option.
You don't have to be trained to eye gouging.
So we both, well, eye gouging.
Like if you, if we're going to go eye gouging.
Yeah, I've had people try to eye gouging before.
It's not going to stop me.
And that's a second point.
It's a serious brother. We were after like metamorphor, we're talking.
And he, he, he basically did that. He was asking questions.
He'd be like, no, he get, I won't. I don't have to learn jiu jitsu.
I would just do this and he'd like, it's like, I know like pressure points.
That subdued people.
And I was like, yeah, okay.
So I said, okay, the Darth Vader.
Yeah, exactly. So I was like, okay, well, what's the pressure point though?
So I was like, okay, do the pressure point on me.
I won't even like fight you back.
And he did the one like here by the name.
And I was like, not only does that not hurt right now.
I mean, I can see it hurts more than if you did it here.
But not only does that not really hurt that much right now.
If we were in any kind of fight situation,
I don't even think I would even notice that.
Those are his like, oh, yeah, yeah, we'll never get this one.
And he did one like behind me here and then my ribs.
He makes acting.
It's yet. It's more sensitive for sure.
Yeah, but it's not for us to fight.
But man, yeah, it simply does not work.
But the jujitsu, if you know jujitsu, you can still do all those things.
If you want to do it, but you don't even have to.
Yeah, because you're going to put them asleep.
Yeah. And I would say even in my opinion, more accurately,
jujitsu will help you or it'll give you the ability to control the fight.
Oh, for sure. So you can, like, if you jujitsu, you're not going to learn how to
throw like a sick left hook or nothing like that.
You're not going to learn that.
But you'll control the fight where if you want to punch someone, you'll be in the perfect position to punch him.
No matter how much punching training you have, you can have no punching training.
And you can just, I don't know, just throw your fist out of him in whatever capacity.
It'll be way more effective when you know jujitsu.
And that goes for any other one of these moves that people say they'll do.
If you do jujitsu on them, you're the one going to control the fight.
I've tried all those people have come to me and I've gone through them all.
Yeah. No factor. The pressure points to this, the that doesn't work. Sorry. Sorry to tell you.
It might work like, you know, the risk ones if you sit there.
Yeah. I'll let them do it and be like, okay, yeah, that hurts.
And also going against some of that's completely untrained.
You can have some sort of success with some of this stuff.
Right. But not against a determined attacker.
And then that's kind of the point where it's a, yeah, I say, yeah, it might work if you let them do it.
But that's the thing you don't let them do it. So ultimately, the likelihood of that work is very, very low.
Just a clear to fairness.
And you jujitsu's fun.
Yeah.
It's creative.
It's a good workout.
It ups your confidence.
It gets you used to come combat of situations where you're going 100%.
Yeah.
You get you used to having someone grind on you and trying to smash you.
And that's a big deal that I didn't even think about where just having someone in girls, especially, or just people who aren't used to confrontation.
Yeah.
Man, when you get in a fight, it inoculates you to the terror of having somebody.
It just ball up on you and trying to smash you.
In, I want to say, it was you received four, which one was one with our gymmer,
and with the one glove was that one was one of them.
So he got mounted and tapped.
Yeah.
And man, that's a perfect example. He didn't get punched.
He didn't tap from any kind of punch or submission.
He got mounted.
And then in an interview later, I saw he said, man, I was just feeling claustrophobic over there.
And if you watch it, he wasn't mounted for very long.
He was just, man, he just wasn't used to that.
And in, I'm actually, if that was a real life fight.
Someone attacks you and they're like, I'm on to it on you and you don't know.
But you can't tap, man, you're not going to be able to handle that.
But if you know, you get mounted, that's no factor.
Some people, they know, mount a skip. So good, where they hold the gate mounted so they can get on top.
You know? And then, so, compare those two sides of the spectrum.
Do you get to know the jujitsu?
No, the jujitsu.
Yeah.
Next.
Next question.
Can you expand on how to appropriately effectively and tactfully lead up the chain of command?
You know, profession that's considered to be very paramilitary.
My line of work sometimes works against this limiting ideas and ways of doing things.
Yeah. And they're talking about the tradition and their line of work.
Okay. So what do you do? You got an organization you're working in and you've,
How do you lead up the chain of command?
Well, even in a paramilitary organization, which, you know, infers that this is a very hierarchical structure.
And it's chain of command driven.
And how do you possibly get your boss to do what you want them to do?
Mmm.
Well, it's actually fairly simple, fairly simple, not easy, but simple.
It is hard to do. It does take a lot more.
It does take a lot of tact.
Takes a lot of patience. So number one, you got to build trust.
You got to build trust with your, the people that are above you and the chain of command.
You got to build a relationship.
You got to be proactive. You got to stay ahead.
You know, when I joined the military, I, you know,
One day just told my dad, hey, by the way, I joined the, I enlisted in the Navy.
I'll be going in three weeks or whatever.
My dad just looked at me and shook his head and he says,
You're going to hate the military because you hate authority.
You don't listen to anybody.
And I was kind of the young stupid kid and I'm like, whatever.
I'm going in the seal teams. It's a team.
We don't have to listen to anybody.
Of course, I was completely wrong.
You do listen to people and you do have a chain of command.
But he was right in the fact that I didn't like to listen to people.
I didn't like authority. So how did I get ahead of that?
It was pretty easy.
What I did to get ahead of that was I got ahead of it.
And that's what you need to do here.
You have to start that, start that attitude of where you're doing what
Needs to be done before you get told to do it.
So you start to appear to have more knowledge and good foresight of what's
Going to happen. Now you got to be careful that you're not showing up
The boss. You can't be fond of their face and already did that.
You know, because I'm so much better than you.
That's not the goal here. The goal is to build confidence, not to build
Animosity. You don't want to build Animosity.
You want to build trust. You want to build confidence.
You want to make that person start to realize how good you are.
Again, be careful not to throw it in their face.
Now the tradition piece.
And sometimes people do cling on to the traditions.
And they use the traditions to shut down evolution.
And that's bad because what they're really doing is they're protecting their
World, they're protecting their existence.
And so that's a big wall. That's a big hard wall to get through.
Now most people do have traditions and traditions.
What are traditions built on?
Do we build traditions on their traditions of failure and we're proud of that?
Are the traditions of losing or not?
No, no, no. The traditions are proud traditions.
The traditions of winning their traditions of excellence.
And in some way, traditions of excellence and traditions of winning
and traditions of domination have to be tied in some way to evolving and to
adapting and to getting better because that's how we win.
That's how we dominate. So you have to find that whole in the tradition that part of the tradition
that implies that what we do in our tradition is we get better.
That's all it is. You just kind of find that thing that says we get better.
We win. And you take that and you carry that lead, that little crack in the armor of
the tradition and you turn that into, you know, yeah, we have a proud tradition because we're the best.
And if you're going to be the best, is the best stagnate?
No, the best evolves. And again, you've got to be careful. You can't fool this in their face.
You've got to say, hey, you know what? Our traditions that we're the best.
We make things happen and we get things done.
And we always do it better than everyone else.
So you know what? Here's one way we could do it better.
We did this. You got to look for those little cracks in the tradition to bring forward change.
Now, again, the most important thing that was you got to continue build that relationship with your
superiors. You're constantly trying to build that.
I've said this before and I'll say it again, no matter who I ever worked for.
I had the same relationship with the crazy boss with the knucklehead boss with the loser with the
great guy. Had the same relationship all the time and that was they trusted me.
Didn't matter who I worked for. So you got to build that relationship of trust.
You've also got to be careful that as you're trying to be proactive and as you're trying to get things done,
that you're not looking to do it for your own ego to get credit because that disturbs the people at the top.
That it makes them say, oh, he's just trying to shine. He's just trying to look good.
Screw him, throw his ideas out. That's what you got to watch out for.
So that's your ego. Don't make your ego fight there.
You go because they've got to need to go to you want to let your ego go.
Build that relationship.
Make the change slow.
It's going to be slow.
Steady and it's going to take persistence in the long war.
Don't you've got to have patience.
Tradition doesn't break down overnight.
Tradition takes time to morph. So you got to be ready for that long war and don't get frustrated.
You're a part of a winning team. You're part of team that has a proud tradition.
You just got to add to that tradition and that's going to take time.
That's how you do it.
Next question.
Hi guys. How about on a podcast?
Talk about what is the essential equipment for a home gym?
Okay. So for me first of all, if you have nothing, if you're building from zero,
the first thing you need is pull a bar, a pull a bar, and a dip bar.
Somewhere there are new dips and somewhere to do pull ups.
And that's what you need. Now be careful. If you're listening and you're like, okay,
I'm going to go buy a pull up arm and a dip bar. Don't get the little flimsy looking things that cost
$129. You don't want that. It's almost worthless. It's better than nothing, but it's almost worthless.
You want to get a legit dip bar and a legit pull up.
Our dip bars are a little bit easier. You can go pretty cheesy on dip bars, but pull up bars you can't pull up bars.
You need something legit, strong. You can bolt it to your wall, but you need a nice pull up bar with a
inch and a half or a two inch metal pipe. I still have a pull up bar that I bought from a home depot.
I bought it in 1998. I've had it ever since.
And it's bolted on to my squat rack. But that's all this piece of, you know, two inch pipe.
And that's what you do pull ups on. So when you say, it makes your it's legit. Why is that?
So you don't, so it doesn't break while you're using it. Basically.
Yeah, and also it's going to have some weight to it. You can do keeping pull ups.
So you're not things not shaking on the place. You get, you see these, I mean, this is just going
to total cheese ball that things with like the foam handles that just rotate and fall off.
And they're just, it's just a nightmare. You want to, what you need is a pipe.
That's what you need is a piece of pipe from home depot.
And then you need somewhere to do dips. Now, one thing that you can do that will cover both
these is you can get rings. You know, gymnastics rings. And you can have, you can adjust the height of the
rings and you can do dips and pull ups on rings. And then you can do muscle ups as well.
So rings are also like, if there's one thing you could have. If you can have one piece of
equipment for working out, it probably be smart to go with just wooden rings.
Because that there are that flexible and you can do that much different stuff.
You can do dips. You can do muscle ups. You can do pull ups. You can do pushups.
You can do all kinds of stuff. You can do levers. You can do front levers.
Back levers. There's all kinds of gymnastics moves. You can do, I mean, you could basically
work for the rest of your life on rings and be good to go. So rings are a way of handling the whole
pull-up and dip bar situation. But, and that's why it's pretty much the number two thing
for me is is pull-up bar dip bar slash rings. Because those are all going to kind of get you
those basic body movements to build your strength. Once you get past that, now it's time for a
squat rack. It's got to have a squat rack. And as soon as you have a squat rack, now my
squat rack has a pull-up bar on it, which I bolted on myself. My squat rack is the same
year when I bought my first house immediately had a garage gym. Those 20, I don't know,
27 years ago or something like that. Built a garage gym immediately.
A squat rack still have the same squat rack.
Bolton a pull-up bar onto it. Still have that. I modified it a little bit and made dip bar.
So I had a dip bar on it. This is before you could buy gym nastickers. I didn't know how to
get a hold of gymnastics rings back in those days. And then the next thing you need is you need
an Olympic lifting bar and and bumper plates. And so you can do your squats, your
clean and jerks, your dead lifts, and all your basic strength movements. After that for me,
I think kettle belts. You know, so now you have, you can do your swings. You can do your
farmers, walks. You can do your snatches. I mean, there's a ton of exercises, Turkish get-up.
I mean, there's a ton of exercises that you can do there that kettlebells now add to
this situation. And you can do some really psychotic conditioning, metabolic conditioning
with the addition of kettlebells as well. At this point, if you only have one set of rings,
I have three sets of rings and I have one that's high for muscle ups. I have one that's medium
for dips and I have one that's low for pushups. And I just have those all the times.
Then you have to adjust them because I get some too lazy to one or just my rings all the time.
So, the next piece for me is, I like rollers, the concept two rollers. I have one I've had it for a
long time. They're brutal work out. I think that you can just destroy yourself very easily and
very quickly. And I think like an air diner and air soul type bike, I don't have one of those
that I can get one very soon. But I think those are outstanding as well. I didn't say jump
roparle here. That's another good kind of cardio kind of metcon kind of get after it.
And then maybe some medicine balls. And after that, I mean, I think the question was a
sensual equipment to me that's sort of my list. And then from there it just becomes fun.
You know, it becomes what kind of other implements can I bring into the situation that are going to
eliminate boredom increase creativity, increase dynamic and functional movement.
And I think these are pretty good. And this is all stuff that's pretty common nowadays. There's a bunch of different places to get it and make it happen.
Yes, especially when you kind of start with kind of one thing and you slowly just add on.
Yeah. And essential that's kind of a complex question anyway to begin with and you did say for you.
Right. So it depends on what kind of gym you're doing, like what kind of results you want.
You know, well, everyone that's listening to this podcast wants to just peak physical conditioning in a broad array of
environments and tasks, right? I would assume that as well, but it's not necessarily a fact. So like I'm just saying if they have different goals, but
name is going to look different.
Name a goal that won't be covered by this.
You can't they want to get their bench up.
Okay. That's one. If you want, if you want to get your bench up, you need to bench.
Yeah.
Yeah. I think your list is pretty elaborate because so it's my opinion.
Oh, because you're going to break it down because you're like a minimalist over here when it comes to work and out.
No.
Let's hear a new list.
Well, essential equipment.
Right. I would say the.
I've managed to depend. So yeah.
Okay.
If you want, yes, it depends on what you what results you want.
So if you just want to be a bodybuilder with big muscles, go to listen to a different podcast.
That's that the question.
The question. The people that are asking these questions are listening to this podcast.
They're into physical fitness. They want to be healthy.
They want to be juit to players. They want to be fighters.
They want to be able to functionally move well.
They want to stay healthy.
They're not just getting their bodybuilder on.
Okay.
That's still.
Is it a assumption though?
Yes.
Correct assumption.
We're a sake of efficiency.
I'm going to go ahead and and I'm going to let you.
I'll tell you what.
Make that assumption as well.
One minute to control the rest.
It's not about completing the list.
I was going to elaborate a little bit more.
But do.
No, I think that I actually agree with you.
You don't have a new elaboration.
There's one more thing you probably added a bench on there.
Yeah.
Is that what you down on?
Anything else?
Yeah.
Or anything that would though.
That would facilitate the same thing a bench would facilitate.
I was mad.
It's pretty pretty good list.
I think.
Yeah. I think that's.
Yeah, that's a big time.
I think that's the deluxe list though, man.
I think you could cut a few.
Like I said, it's still good.
It's an escalation though.
Yeah.
If someone's listening right now, they're like, you know what?
I'm going to go get in shape.
First thing you do is get a set of rings that you can do pull those.
That's not why I got you.
Then you can get a squat rack.
Then you the squat racks can come with a pull up arm and a dead bar somehow.
So you're good there.
Then you then you got to get the bar and bumper plates, right?
Which you can escalate. You can start with a start with just a bar and, you know,
to 25 pound bumper plates.
And then every month by another 45 pounds or 100 pounds or whatever and you're good.
After you see the gains.
After you start jacking the biggest deal.
The thing about home gyms is if you work out at home, especially this, these kinds of workouts,
you get more of a testosterone boost.
If you work out at a public gym, like at a 24-footness or crossfit gym or something,
which gives you more.
If you work out, well basically if you work out in front of people.
If there's other people around, you get a testosterone boost.
How come I'm still in the new wood?
It's this thing where, I don't know, it's this weird,
some guy did an experiment long time ago where, I don't know how long ago,
but he did an experiment where he found out all these little things that you can do in front of
people that'll boost your testosterone.
One was like drive a car, like a certain kind of car.
And if you do it in front of people, it boosts your testosterone.
So if you, and not only do you get that, you get psychological mental priming as well.
So when you walk in the gym, like the crossfit gym, all the smells, the sounds,
and all that basically primes your mind and your physiology for a workout.
So, I'll tell you at home, I mean, I'm sure you could do that.
I don't think he would replace that actually being there.
Just that part of it.
I'm not saying home gym, I'm not saying that at all.
Yeah, no, because when I walk in my home gym,
for your prime, I feel like I feel brim.
Yeah, see, and that's part of it as well.
So, the whole reason, the whole reason I set up home gym was,
so I don't have to make that drive to the gym and, you know,
but that kind of works against it.
It's interesting that you use that.
Like, I say, hey, I have a home gym,
so I can just be alone in the gathering of doom
and just get after it.
And bother me, and I can be alone in my main world of pain,
improving myself.
Yeah.
And you did it, because you're too lazy to go to the gym.
Yeah, to make that drive is just more of a pain.
I can say this at a time.
Yeah.
Right, which it is an efficiency thing for sure.
Yeah, but that efficiency thing can come back for you.
You're back for who you are. Yeah, it'll back for, like, for example,
I'll be like, I don't have to,
you feel like you don't have to get the most out of your workout,
because I could just come right back here, you know,
in an hour when I quote unquote, feel better or when I feel more like doing it.
Or the TV's right there and look at it.
So, it's like on.
It's a lack of discipline.
Yeah, it can be.
And if you're looking for helpers for that discipline,
you can just go home gym.
It could go either way, man.
Yeah, because I personally,
I'm able to work out sometimes only because I have a home gym.
Yeah.
You know, in other words, my time is in a day.
I'll get up super early.
And if I wouldn't be able to hit my own gym quickly in 30 minutes and get a workout,
and I wouldn't be able to get, you know,
take me 30 minutes, just get your gym and back.
Yeah.
Well, I recommend if you make a home gym,
you do it in a positive way to increase your discipline.
That's what I recommend.
Yeah.
I like all, you know, your home gym is kind of separate.
From my house.
Yeah.
You have to kind of go to it.
So I do get to escape.
Yeah.
I feel like that's a big factor.
Mine is like right outside next to the barbecue.
Yeah.
You don't know whether you want to.
I don't know how cruising or lifting, you know?
Yeah.
It's rough for a couple of girls.
It doesn't know if he's cruising or lifting.
Next question.
Okay.
Podcast question.
How does it feel to do Tim Paris podcast,
Joroggin podcast and get thousands of followers listening to your podcast,
reading your book, etc.
Do you worry that some of your fans place you on a pedestal
and engage in hero worship?
Yeah.
So this is a question that I was actually not going to do because I was a little bit uncomfortable.
And then I was like, okay, why you uncomfortable with it?
It's not that big of a deal.
Although I will say like it does make me feel uncomfortable to think of people
thinking of me in a heroic way or whatever.
That does feel strange to me.
As far as being on Rogan in Paris and Sam Harris and doing some of these podcasts,
it's, you know, it was really cool.
It's definitely, you know, meeting people all the time.
As I travel and meeting people that have read our book and and they've gotten a lot out of it.
You know, and that that feels very rewarding.
You know, it feels very rewarding.
It feels great when someone says, hey, you know, I use this chapter or hey,
your book.
I mean, people are saying that your book changed my life and I take that with a grain of salt,
but it feels, it feels good.
It feels positive, you know, it feels, I like that.
You know, I want to help people.
And so that feels good.
But as far as it's not, it like like my social media presence,
which I had zero before and now I have it.
And it's, it's not really that big of a deal because it's just me.
I'm still just me.
And there's no, there's nothing that's different or has changed.
And when we talk about doing this podcast,
we don't talk about how we should act or how I should act
to get more people to listen to it.
I'm only doing what I'm doing because this is me.
And I'm not going to be different in order to achieve anything else.
I'm only going to be who I am.
And that's why the font of people putting me on a pedestal or whatever.
That's, I know that I'm just a person.
And I think that it might be how I get presented,
you know, by the media, how I get presented, even on this podcast.
When I'm on this podcast talking to you,
we're talking about specific subjects that we are interested in.
And it's not, you know, I could see where someone might think,
oh, you know, joc was this super, you know, superhuman.
And, you know, I know I'm not.
So if I come across like that,
it's only because you're seeing a sliver of me that appears that way.
You know, I'm not saying I'm, I know I'm not totally normal as well.
I mean, I know I'm not a normal person.
I know I'm a little bit to the, to the edge of, you know,
being a little bit extreme.
Yeah, a little bit extreme is ish in some ways.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And I know a lot of that just has to do with my habits as a person.
But the fact of the matter is that no matter what happens,
no matter what I come across.
And no matter what people might perceive me as,
I don't perceive myself as special or as a hero for sure.
Because and one thing that will not,
that will always stay with me is that
I've been in combat and I've been humbled by combat.
And I think that I've been on the battlefield and I've been confused.
And I've been out maneuvered and I've had my guys killed.
And so I know what a real hero is and it ain't me.
And that's always gonna keep me grounded.
And I will never forget that.
Yeah, and you, it's far as being worried about people putting you on a pedestal.
Like how you're saying.
You just, you be you and that's all you're gonna do is be you.
You're not trying to live up to anyone's expectation.
That's never a goal of yours.
No.
So if someone has an expectation since that's not your goal,
how can you worry about it?
You can continue to be you.
And it is, I think, I don't know if it's irony,
but the more you do that and just be just authentic or whatever.
It seems to draw more people to you.
I guess, but I don't know because I'm not acting any other way
than I acted a year ago or you know, four years ago.
I'm just, you know what I do? I try and get smarter.
I try and do better.
Yeah.
You know, that's what I do.
So, so yeah, I'm just gonna, you know, I'm me.
And I actually, I'll tell you, this is interesting.
Is that people that I interact with now?
I enjoy it and I get something out of it.
I'm taking away.
They're giving me as much inspiration as I'm giving them.
Yeah.
You know, there's one girl on the, on the, on Twitter.
And I don't want to say her name because I mean,
it's, I don't know how, I don't like to disrupt people's privacy.
I mean, she's on Twitter.
But she's a, clearly, a little bit of an older lady.
She's, um, she's a cancer survivor.
I mean, when I say older, I mean, she's in her, at least in her 60s.
And, and she put a picture on the internet, the other day on Twitter,
of her at the gym and she's got, you know, like a kettlebell,
um, a medicine ball, and an oxygen tank.
And the game.
Because she's, because she's in there working out.
Yeah.
And she's, yeah, I got to bring my oxygen tank because of, you know,
I don't know, no specifically why.
But, a man, if she can bring an oxygen tank to the gym and get after it,
at, you know, age 65 or 70, you know, that's inspiring.
And, and I can get up and get after it and do my piece, just, you know,
just, at least just as well as as she could.
And, and so I think that that's, I think that's what's what's been interesting
about this is seeing other people that are fired up.
And, and you know, that's, that's another thing that kind of happened early on in this journey for me.
I have not a bunch of friends, but one of my friends who's a seal.
When I was just about, I think I had recorded the Tim Ferriss podcast.
And I knew it was going to be released.
And I knew it was going to be heard by people.
And when I did, when I got back, I texted my friend.
And I said, hey, I did this podcast.
And it's going to be released.
And I'm going to be one of them.
And when I meant by that was one of these guys that sold out for lack of a better word.
And I'm out there, you know, oh, I'm a Navy seal.
And I'm the biggest baddest guy because there's plenty of those guys out there.
And now I'm going to be one of those guys.
And so I said, I said, I'm going to be one of them now.
Sorry.
And he wrote me back.
And he said, that's awesome.
And we got so many guys running around saying all kinds of stuff.
You should be out there representing.
You know, you should be.
And he went on to say something even more powerful.
And he said, you know what?
There's a lot of people in this world that need a role model that need a dad.
I needed a dad.
I needed a father figure.
And that's what you were for me.
And for you to go out there and be out there in the world and be that role model for other people.
It's awesome.
And you should do it.
And I love the fact that you're doing it.
Yeah.
And when he wrote that to me, it kind of changed my attitude because I did look at the role models that people look at.
And I said to myself, and again, I think part of what might make me a good role model is that I don't think I'm a good role model because I'm still trying to get better.
And I've done all kinds of stupid stuff.
We need to have a dozen podcasts on the stupid things I've done in my life.
And talk about the mistakes I've made growing up and all the just, I mean, I'm,
That's another thing.
Like when people see me on the podcast or hear me on the podcast or they read the book,
They're seeing the good part, right?
They're seeing, I would hesitate to say,
But they're seeing the best part of me.
They're seeing a much sure person.
I'm not that mature.
But they're seeing the older, the matureist that I've ever been, which is right now.
They're not seeing the idiot, you know, growing dummy that I was and that many of us were when we were younger.
Now, I might, I've had a little edge, a little bit of a van,
Maybe I was a little bit ahead in some cases,
But man, I didn't, you know?
And so that, when I got that text, that was a series of text from my brother that really gave me a different attitude on this whole thing.
So comfortable with the fact that I was selling out and that I was now going to be out there in the public view.
And, and all this being said, at some point,
I'm probably going to go right back to the cave that I came from.
And I'm, I don't want, you know,
I don't have what Pat and had, which would just like this huge desire to be famous.
I have no problem not being, I was unrecognizable to the world for my whole life.
And the fact that I'm a little bit recognizable now, it doesn't make me feel great.
It doesn't do anything for me.
Yeah.
I'm just doing what I do.
It's not my goal.
But there is there a goal to try and help some people out there.
Yes, and I think here that from that body of mine,
made me solidify that goal a little bit.
And again, not to try and say, hey, be like me.
No, it's to say, learn from what I learned from.
Yeah.
I did some dumb stuff.
I've been through some stuff that most people don't have to go through.
So if you can take something away from it,
awesome, you know, don't worship me by any stretch.
Yeah.
But let's work together and see if we can get better as a team.
And you're a good, like,
a lot of your messages and the things that you say a lot of it is new.
And then a lot of it's not new, right?
So, and so this is one point where, and a sum of this stuff,
people may have heard before, but someone like you who's done what you've done.
And think the way you think and do what you do right now,
you're the perfect medium for that, for that information to get passed on to someone.
You know, like, you know, when you're a teenager or something,
your dad tells you to do something, your mom tells you to do something.
You're like, fuck that.
But then when you go, and then you go to your friend's house and then like he tells you to do it.
The exact same thing.
You're like, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, it just, it takes that same message.
But from someone who you can, for lack of a bit, better way of putting it.
Someone you can accept it from.
And so all your messages are perfectly in line with who you are.
So they're so, like, you're so eager to accept them.
You know, so like how you put the, you know,
online, you're supposed to picture of your watch every morning and you're kind of the work out setting and stuff like that.
And you're kind of your message, more or less, is get up every morning and get your work done,
get to work out in whatever, and then you're doing it.
And there's the proof right there.
So if you're just some dudes, like, yeah, work out every day and you don't do it,
that's like, yeah, it's going to be harder to accept.
So people will get those messages.
And they'll, they'll internalize them way more readily from someone like you,
given the messages that you're, you're, you're sending.
That's one, two, the whole broadcasting yourself thing is totally understandable for someone like you and that,
that it's good that you kind of got your kind of got turned on to the notion that it's more,
you have really good messages and good content that will improve people in their,
in their life, whether it be older people, younger people, girls, guys, everything.
And this is especially like a podcast situation or even like certain online profiles and stuff,
they're good ways to get that information out that people need men, like to improve themselves.
Like if you're in a, in a neighborhood or an environment with a bunch of people improving themselves,
that's going to be a good neighborhood.
And if they have the means to improve themselves, then that's a good service that you're putting out there.
And, and to reach as many people as you do, you're essentially, you're helping the world with your message.
Well, okay.
I'm telling you.
So I'm saying broadcasting yourself is a good thing.
Yeah, it's, it definitely was a hard thing to, to overcome the, the, the, the, the version.
Yeah.
Yeah, to broadcasting yourself, which is something that, you know, that I talked about with Tim Ferris,
and I talked about it with Joe Rogan, is this idea of people that are talking.
Yeah.
And, you know, you look at the extreme examples of social media, you know, abusers abusers and worthlessness,
you know, and, and you just don't want to have anything to do with them.
Yeah.
And when you're, when you're doing it, regardless of how much you don't want to have anything to do with them,
you have something to do with them because you're doing it, too.
And it's very difficult for me not to feel like that.
Now obviously, I've gotten over it.
I mean, I've gotten over it to a point where I'm saying, okay,
these are kind of the acceptable parameters that I operate within for my personality, you know,
which is, there's things that I haven't done.
And I won't do on social media, you know, because I'm not there to promote me.
Yeah.
But I'm there to only open a door of observation, I would say, not to knock on people's door and enter,
but just to open the door of observation and say, this is how I try to live.
And this is the steps that I take to try and live that way, observe.
And if you want to enter my house and hang out with me, come on in as long as you're like mine,
and you have the same sort of goals that come on in and you know what, you're going to make me stronger.
You're going to bolster me up.
You're ice, so many people now, they're posting pictures of their watches on my Twitter.
When I wake up, I'm looking at 50 to 100 watches every day.
Yeah, man.
And I'm going, wow, that's a lot of people.
And that is unity and that is leadership.
And it does make me feel like, okay, cool, there's other people in the world that are up and
get NAFTA.
Yeah, there's a guy who's 20.
Yeah, and there's a guy who's a teacher posts good.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, post a good on the classroom door.
Yeah, on this classroom door, man.
And so now he's, yeah, I'm kind of pushing that, those good messages to the kids, you know.
Yeah, so yeah, I mean, it's all, I think it's all positive.
Social media, it is easy to get to get that attitude towards it because of all the people who
abuse it, right?
Right.
But, you know, like if you went, I don't know, like on the highway and all you saw was people
speeding reckless driving and still didn't change a fact that you still want to drive on the highway
because you have something to do, you know.
Your, your pursuit is different, but yeah, there's going to be everyone.
The other weird things I have no idea where this is going, you know, and so like this podcast,
I didn't, you know, we just kind of did it.
I went on with Tim Ferriss and just kind of did it.
I started Twitter.
I had no idea what that was going to be.
Yeah.
And so it's fun for me to be adventuring into things that I don't know the outcome of.
And this is one of them.
And Twitter is one of them.
The book was one of them and, you know, I don't know what's around the corner next.
And I don't know where this is going, but I will stay with the principles that I believe in
to the best of my ability.
And I think that's what makes it an interesting ride.
Where's that going to go?
Yeah.
We'll find out.
Okay.
Last question.
Joko, what motivates you?
I heard you mention the man in the cave.
Can you go deeper on this?
What motivates me?
Well, I've talked about this before.
And it's kind of what we were talking about a couple of minutes ago as well.
And that is first of all, with the man in the cave and this idea and the thought of the enemy.
And that was a thought that used to drive me and kind of haunt me and make me get up early
and work hard to push myself because I knew that somewhere out there there wasn't enemies.
There wasn't enemy, a real enemy, a real man, a person, a human.
That was waiting for me.
And that was preparing for me.
And therefore, I needed to prepare for him.
I needed to be ready.
I needed to be the things I always talk about.
I needed to be stronger and faster and smarter and better.
So that when we did me on the battlefield, I would be ready for that rendezvous for that meeting,
that fate, that battle.
And that thought, that thought of the enemy, yes, it absolutely fueled me.
And when I was a leader in the seal teams and charge of men, it was even more profound.
Because I was thinking about that rendezvous.
For everybody that I led, everyone else in charge of everyone that I trained.
And I felt that burden, the burden of responsibility,
to prepare those men and protect those men, those frog men, those warriors, my brothers.
And it was my burden to train those guys and prepare them.
And that burden, it made me a little bit crazy, a little bit paranoid,
a little bit over the top.
But I didn't really know any other way.
And so now, I am no longer a combat leader.
I no longer prepare men for war.
So the drive and the motivation is from a different place.
It's from a solemn place.
And now I have now, and the motivation now is not really from the enemy anymore.
Now it's from my friends, my brothers.
And from those seals that I knew,
and that I cared about more than anything,
and that they sacrificed everything for us and for me,
those guys, they gave their lives for us.
And now I cannot help but think and remember that every breath that we take is a gift.
It's a sacred gift from those men.
Every day we have, every sunrise, every thought, and every smile, and every laugh, it's a gift.
And I will treasure that gift, that gift of life.
And I will not let it go to waste, not one second of it.
And I'll cherish every moment of it, and I will live it.
I will live it in their memory.
And in their honor.
I think that's about it for tonight.
So, as always, thank you for listening.
Thanks for subscribing.
Thanks for reviewing.
Thanks for supporting.
And thanks for taking a moment to remember the brave men and women
that have fought and died for our freedoms.
And in their memory, make sure you get out there and you get after it.
Until next time, this is Echo and Jockel. Out.